---
layout: post
title: Day One Notes
---

## Functional Reactive Javascript ##
compositional event systems, more fitting name for session
"reactive" is a catch all term
rx, reactive extensions, implementation of a proposed es spec
observables. stream of events over time

how does it work on the client side?
ui elements emit streams of values -> reduce them into a new streams -> affect UI output

oh hey, using const for immutability

const value$ = Rx.Observable.fromEvent($slider, 'input', callback to map event to value);
const float$ = value$.map((x) => parseFloat(x));
float$.subscribe((valueToOutput) => $label.text(valueToOutput));

two streams, valueA$ and valueB$

const combined$ = Rx.Observable.combineLatest(valueA$, valueB$, (a,b) => a+b);
combined$.subscribe((sum) => $label.text(sum));

benefit: just javascript. observables just solve one problem

.startWith(initial value for stream)

in node, streams can be used to model network calls, allowing access of data without loading it all into memory
observables will be used to model communication, but streams still needed to talk to servers over http

redux is more functional that flux, but a lot of this could be implemented manually using observables

shared mutable state has a lot of overhead. in the context of react, state and lifecycle events

follow up: look at ajax examples in this model

## Docker Containers ##

Ok, so this wasn't the intro to Docker course I was expecting. My biggest takeaway from this session is that platform as a service providers (specifically openshift) are beginning to provide users with more devops tools.

## Building Mobile Applications That Work Offline ##

Offline first development. Not offline only. This can drastically improve app responsiveness.

Couchbase lite. Stands up a simple, small (400kb) database server locally.

Mapreduce views. Built in native language. Just a function.

Couchbase has a sync gateway. Data replication between server and device. Abstracts the sync process.

How pouchdb can work:

1. Set up couchbase and point to server.
2. Turn on syncing.
3. Update data through library. Changes are saved locally and an attempt is made to sync with DB when connection is available.

## Canvas ##

Intro to canvas.

Since animation isn't a native concept, how to decide when an animation should happen? requestAnimationFrame

function animate() {
  render(); //my render logic
  requestAnimationFrame(animate); // hook in callback again. like setInteval, but canvas best practice.
}

Initialization:

let canvas = get canvas element;
let mainContext = canvas.getContext('2d');

top left of canvas is origin, but you can change that if it's more convenient. to set the center as the origin:

mainContext.translate(new center object);

supports several functions for drawing shapes, colors, text. all of these draw from the origin

expensive drawings can be cached in a second, offscreen canvas. optimization requires experimentation, as certain operations are more expensive in certain contexts. 
