---
layout: post
title: Day Three Note Dump
---

### Keynotes ###

Douglas Crockford seif (pronounced "safe") project

most of web development is working "around" limitations of the document retrieval model the web is based around

insecurity: cross site scripting, xsrf, clickjacking, dependence on passwords

project is made up of:
1. seifnode: a module containing crypto services for node js. libraries collect entropy from OS, Microphone, Camera. available now
2. seif protocol: secure json over tcp
3. safe resource management: using hashes to securely deliver assets
4. Seif apps. HTML-Free, javascript-based application delivery system built in node and Qt. Also trust management. No passwords
5. Seif helper app. Tool for running seif apps in a browser.

transition plan: convince a browser maker to integrate, convince a high-profile site to require it, everyone will love it so much that it'll get adopted...

wedding lovely startup story

hellowebapp - programming book for designers

design is not just what it looks like and feels like. design is how it works - steve jobs

pay attention to clutter (refer to yesterday's talk)

Angular 2 on the way.

Service workers are replacing cache manifest

svg animations. motivation: looks good on any display, scaling, small file size (or at least can be small), easy to animate, easy to make accessible

svg optimization tools: svgomg, svgo

viewboxes can be changed dynamically

### Immutable Data Structures ###

immutable list implemented as a linked list

1->2->3

old list points to 1, new list points to 2

no index accessor []

when using these structures, you end up with a bunch of linked lists merged together

git is an immutable data structure

(sidenote: principle of functional programming in scala)

a tree representing every combination. do a breadth first traversal. the algorithm to solve this is recursively going through every path, so an immutable data structure is much more efficient way to keep track of moves.

how would you find the first 10,000 primes?

you get undo for free

procore! small world

elm is a purely functional language

the value of values. now that ram is cheap, it makes sense to store structures like this in memory.

### Store-Query-Presenter Pattern ###

pushed by react/redux, but not limited to those

mvc originated in the 80s with smalltalk

flux/redux actions are "message passing"

event sourcing: treating everything as an event. you can rewind indefinitely and have an "audit trail" for the current state.

events, message passing, command/query separation, functional programming

these ideas have been around for a while. tried and true. mvc has had a 40 year run, and it's on its way out. burn the diskpacks!

redux: the only way to modify state is to replace it, which isn't as expensive as it sounds.

cons: state structure isn't well documented, it's difficult to understand async actions, querying the store is difficult because the structure isn't well documented

1. Store. Immutable.js. Reducers.

import User from '/helpers/user'

export function reducer(state, action) {
  ...check action...
  return User.create(state).load();
}

2. Query. Reselect.

state.getIn(['root', 'next level', 'next level'])

3. Presenter

Presenter can be anything! React is a good one.

### HTTP 1.1 vs HTTP 2 ###

More bandwidth doesn't not improve load time by much, but reducing networking delay improves load time linearly.

history:

http 1.0 introduced in 1996, and worked well for the simple sites of the time. only two connections at a time. back then, download time was the bottleneck. now it's the setup for downloading resources.

1997 is when http 1.1 was released. it introduced connection reuse, which improved speeds.

browsers now support more than two simultaneous connections. today it's usually six connections per host.

1.1 also introduced pipelining, which allows several resources to be requested at once. difficult to implement...not used today

as developers we try to work around this problem: spriting, inlining, concatenating, sharding. these are hacks that we pay for in developer time.

enter http2!

multiplexing. the client asks the server for all resources at once over a single connection.

it's a binary protocol that's going to be encrypted in browsers.

streams. client can control/cancel streams.

header compression. cuts down on overhead size.

server can push content to client. may not work out?

70% of browsers support it, as does most server-side software.

what kind of real-world performance gains do we get? speaker ran an experiment on amazon.com, fetching roughly 7mb of data. minimum load time of http2 is much lower. 50%-70% improvement. after a certain network latency, the difference between the protocols is negligible.

worst case, supporting http2 will be as good as http1. http2.loadimpact.com coming soon (a test app that compares load times over http1 and 2)


### Javscript Static Sites ###

speaker is from telerik

advantages of static sites: fast (obviously), secure (nothing to protect), easy to host, easy to version control

cons: surprisingly difficult to implement. there are hundreds of generators out there.

what are the javascript options? there are at least 90 (staticsitegenerators.net). thoughts on a few of them to follow.

1. Docpad. Coffeescript. Config is written in coffee. Allows custom functions/helpers. No default templating solution. lots of renderers/helpers. admin interfaces. bad: slow builds, bad docs, no support for data files

2. Metalsmith. Everything is a plugin. Nothing out of the box. Config in json or javascript, which varies greatly depending on what plugins you choose. Order of plugins matters a lot. Pros: lots of plugins, support for several templating solutions. Cons: Bad docs, few examples.

3. Harp. JSON config. Only jade and ejs for templating. Very easy to get started, especially for a non-blog site. Bad: no plugins, limited templates, post meta data is separate from post itself.

4. Hexo. YAML config. Templating is ejs with a few other options. Good: asset folders. Plugins. Built-in deployment options (to amazon!). Bad: Docs not great. Renders js as text?

5. Wintersmith. Config json. Templating jade. Good: lots of plugins, great examples. Bad: almost no docs, weird data organization.

### Debugging Node in Production ###

Apply the scientific method when an issue comes up: hypothosis, collect data, analyze data, make conclusion

Gather request data. Restify, which gives latency for each request. Node is single-threaded, so something slow affects every request.

Linux perf. Sample stack traces from any running processes. node --perf_basic_prof_only_functions. outputs the files in a format that linux perf can understand. this gives us a lot of stack data. enter flamegraph!

What about runtime crashes? core dump. dump and inspect contents of memory. you can configure node to dump core on error. on crash, dump core, restart app, analyze data and engineer fix. mdb is a good tool for this. always name functions for easier debugging.

What about memory leaks? generate core dump ad hoc. mdb command findjsobjects. find high counts, since that's likely a leak. view representation of model to see if that helps. where are they being created and who's holding on to them?

### How to Survive in Post Browser World ###

more mobile devices than desktop: devices in use, time used, etc. smartphone is primary computing platform. by 2020, the number is expected to double and the number of desktops should remain static.

headline: desktop is dead.

browser will be a casualty of declining use of desktop. general purpose browser doesn't really work on mobile.

most native apps are just custom web browsers that are optimized for a certain context or content.

stat: there is more browser usage inside of facebook for ios than mobile safari

web tech used in phones, tv, car, watches

web developers have a high tolerance for weirdness, so we're perfectly suited to handle these complexities.

being a generalist may be over? how can we specialize?

Horizontal development specializations: javascript, cms (agnostic cms, existing cmses will always have legacy work), APIs.

Vertical dev specialization: Rails for Dentists. Pick an industry.

Change. Learn. Don't get comfortable.
