---
layout: post
title: Day Two Note Dump
---

### Intro Keynote ###

creator of js talking about it being a good time to be a web developer. a few compelling tech demos. asm js allowing performance near native.

better globalization workflow by IBM Bluemix. performs translate on content and provides a web interface for managing translations.

accessibility is important. accessible ux is better ux. keyboard focus. try a screen reader. don't use just color or sound to communicate. use high contrast. free accessibility course on udacity coming up.

npm recently underwent a "rewrite," and went surprisingly well. gall's law: a complex system that works must be founded on a simple system that works. systemantics: how systems really work and how they fail. systems often start with a monolith (everything runs in one big process). when you write something the first time, it's gonna work, because it's easy when things are small. don't worry about scale until you succeed. the tragedy of success. first way folks try to scale is to just copy the monolith. eventually, that gets expensive, so it needs to be split. a monolith is complex, but a split system is even more complex. slice off part of the system into a module and write a second implementation of that feature and write a proxy to it. the key is you have a working system every step of the way. thanks npm.

web continuously deploys software. lots of nostalgia about old ways of distributing software. encarta! distribution is the hardest problem in software. with all of the distribution advantages the web gives us, why are we using the app model on devices? mobile web: broad reach, low engagement. 80% of time is used in top three apps. advertising your app on your mobile site smacks of desperation and doesn't even work. why can't web apps hold users? it's not the tech.

1. Homescreen Access. Android allows you to treat a site with a manifest file as an app (not the cache manifest).
2. Push notifications. Native looking! Work if browser is closed, requires service workers, needs permission. It appears to work. Research suggests +50% repeat visits and time spent.
3. Offline. "We want the extinction of the offline dinosaur." :D Alternative to cache manifest, service workers. A script that sits between client and server. e.g. If local cache contains a resource, return it and don't even contact the server. "Progressive Enhancement of Network."

Progressive web apps. They start life in a tab, but become more native feeling.

### Design for Non Designers ###

focus: how to create effective/more effective designs

Remove clutter. Line things up. Pixel differences are unconsciously noticed by users.

Keep colors complimentary. Colourlovers. Crowdsourced color.

Keep number of fonts low. Two is usually good. Use display fonts sparingly or not at all. Vary weights and styles to differentiate content. Beautiful web type. Typewolf.

Whitespace is the best way to reduce clutter. Xerox made a small whitespace change and saw a boost in sales.

Make the important actions on app easy to find and use.

Content: less is more. Break into bullets when possible to make more digestible. Headlines: talk benefits, not details. Make content more skimable, statistically supported.

Process:
1. Collect inspiration and decide what to emulate. Sketch. Very loose. Boxes, squiggles, lines.
2. Mock things up. Sketch, photoshop, etc. Rough, just for layout.
3. Buildit.

### ES2016/2017/someday Observables ###

Brian Holt, Netflix.

Async History: callbacks -> callback hell -> promises -> generators -> async/await -> observables

observables are a different way to think about async code. it's not pub/sub. objects that inform other objects of changes they publish.

we can essentially treat observables like arrays that don't have all their values yet. this is cool because you can use array methods and functional programming ideas.

application agnostic. just javascript. plus you can use functional programming ideas!

cold observables. if nobody's listening to an observable, don't do anything. like a database call.

hot observable. things they the user can do even when nobody's listening. cheap operations.

normal observable. if you miss it, catch the next one.

behavior observable.

replay observable. keep the last n values.

subject. it's hard to distinguish between an observable and observer. the subject is an observable and observer in one. don't use, but helpful when learning.

anything you can do to an iterator you can do to an observable.

case for only using observables:
1. treat anything that's async the same.   
2. compose ajax calls.
3. composability.
4. don't try to use promises with observables.
5. promises are just one-off observables.

warning: you have to be really explicit in error handling.

promises are now outlawed at netflix.

rxjs is used for observables, but it's big. don't use if you're writing a package.

not looking good for 2017. we'll see if it makes it in at all.

### Web GL 2 ###

don't do an about me slide...

3d rendering standard for web

opengl es 3 -> webgl 2

several webgl extensions have been promoted in webgl 2

motivations for developing web vr are the same as building a web app: easy distribution, not beholden to stores...

gltf - json and binary format for modeling. "jpeg for 3D"

### Rapid API Development ###

loopback is a framework for rapidly generating an api and models

strongloop is a graphical tool for loopback

npm install strongloop
cli tool is slice

slc loopback creates an app

slc is a scaffolding tool for model and restful api

strongloop adds some tools on top

### Move Fast and Don't Break Things ###

uber uses node heavily

detect bad releases
fast rollback/mitigation
testing of release candidates

60/30/10
existing, next, moonshot

"free" things: easy to do, no extra work. dependency injections

"fixed" things: initial learning/setup curve, but minimal work afterwards. npm install/build management

"dev" things: work increases linearly. code coverage.

"user" things: interfaces and validation
